1. The primary factors that require consideration when installing vision systems is budget, venue space, and the length of the production. Budget can be a major deciding factor when installing a vision system because it will determine if you have the funds to build a permanent setup or if you will need to rent equipment. Permanent vision systems will cost the most because you have to buy the equipment up front, whereas with temporary systems, the equipment can be rented for the duration of the production which in most cases will cost far less than purchasing the equipment up front. Venue space also needs to be considered because temporary systems will take up more room than permanent solutions. This is because the equipment won’t be fitted to walls, the cables won’t be routed or hidden through the walls or ceiling, and there may be a venue’s house equipment taking up extra room that you need to accommodate for. The production length should also be considered when installing a vision system because it will aid in determining whether a permanent or temporary system will suit the production. If the production has a short duration, or is only in a venue for one day, then installing a permanent solution is a waste of time. Temporary vision systems will be a much better choice because of the time and money that will be saved by renting and setting up the equipment. One last factor to consider is the flexibility of each system. Temporary systems will be more flexible than permanent systems which will allow the system to be configured appropriately for the production conditions. For example, if a vision switcher needs to be next to an audio console, with a temporary vision system, the switcher can be moved, however, with a permanent system, the switcher may be stuck in place.

2. Implementing complex vision systems with multiple input, output, and display devices can produce issues such as having equipment that does not support what is required, not having the appropriate cabling, and not having adequate space for the installation. As vision systems become more complex, they require either more equipment, or more expensive equipment to function properly. With multiple input, output, and display devices, you will need a vision switcher that supports all of these requirements. If you do not have equipment that supports your requirements or if you use the equipment incorrectly, then the system will not function correctly. For example, if you have a system with 5 cameras, you will require a vision switcher that supports at least 5 inputs. Complex systems also require more cabling to function correctly and could also require different types of cables. For example, if a vision system that uses SDI is being implemented into a pre-existing system that uses HDMI, the system will not function without upgrading the cables. Having multiple input, output, and display devices will also require more physical and digital space. This is because of the extra equipment and cabling required, as well as the increase in bandwidth required for certain systems.

3. Visions systems can vary greatly depending on what they are being used for, so there are a range of technical requirements and constraints associated with their installation. For a vision system to function there are three main requirements: an input device, processing device, and an output device. Input devices can include cameras, computers, USB media, and more. The input devices you can use are constrained by the equipment supported by your processing device such as a mixer or switcher. Vision switchers are used to cut and send data to different outputs; however, they can only support a certain number of input and output devices, as well as certain interfaces. For example, some switchers only support 4 inputs, 2 outputs, and only support HDMI, whereas some cameras only support SDI. Output devices can include monitors, TV’s, projectors, LED screens and more. Output devices can only receive certain inputs such as HDMI, SDI, USB, and more. Constraints such as this can be removed with adapters that convert one interface into another, so when installing a vision system, these requirements need to be considered.

4. Cost and budget issues associated with implementing a vision system depend on the size of the production that the system is designed for. If the production is large scale, then many cameras will need to be purchased, sometimes up to 15 for one show. Depending on the quality required for the production, cameras can cost a lot of money. The Panasonic HC-X2000 is a professional camcorder that would provide high image quality and fit the requirements for a large-scale vision system at a cost of $3799. Vision switchers can also be an expensive component of a vision system. For large scale events, a high number of input and outputs will be required which will therefore increase the price of each unit. The ATEM SDI Extreme ISO switcher has 8 inputs and costs $2449. However, a budget issue could arise if more than 8 inputs are required because then you will have to purchase a second switcher. Cabling can also become expensive, depending on the length of cable runs. HDMI cables can only be run effectively at less than 15m, so anything more than that will need optical HDMI cables which are far more expensive. JB HI FI sell 20m active optical HDMI cables for $799.95. If the switcher or cameras in the vision system do not have HDMI inputs or outputs, then SDI cables are required. These are cheaper than HDMI cables over longer lengths, and they can carry signals further. Brisbane Sound Group sell 30m SDI cables for $192.75. The previously mentioned items will take up most of the budget, however another cost issue is the display devices. Many large-scale productions require extensive LED screens which also cost a lot of money. QLD Sound and Lighting sell 500 x 500mm LED screen panels for $1099 each, so for a large-scale production, many of these panels will have to be purchased.

Camera: [https://www.panasonic.com/au/consumer/lumix-cameras-video-cameras/video-cameras/hc-x2000gc.html](https://www.panasonic.com/au/consumer/lumix-cameras-video-cameras/video-cameras/hc-x2000gc.html)

Switcher: [https://www.blackmagicdesign.com/au/products](https://www.blackmagicdesign.com/au/products)

HDMI cable: [https://www.jbhifi.com.au/products/monster-m3000-uhs-active-optical-hdmi-cable-20m](https://www.jbhifi.com.au/products/monster-m3000-uhs-active-optical-hdmi-cable-20m)

SDI cable: [https://brisound.com.au/products/bsg-pro-hd-sdi-bnc-cable-30m-1?variant=42719007932565&currency=AUD&utm_medium=product_sync&utm_source=google&utm_content=sag_organic&utm_campaign=sag_organic&srsltid=ASuE1wRNVKjZBmbvpq2FOSWibt0ir2d4FJU3VwPEleRusItEuYu8aJNRY0w](https://brisound.com.au/products/bsg-pro-hd-sdi-bnc-cable-30m-1?variant=42719007932565&currency=AUD&utm_medium=product_sync&utm_source=google&utm_content=sag_organic&utm_campaign=sag_organic&srsltid=ASuE1wRNVKjZBmbvpq2FOSWibt0ir2d4FJU3VwPEleRusItEuYu8aJNRY0w)

LED screen panel:  [https://www.soundlight.com.au/event-pixels-riy-series-p2.91-mm-indoor-led-screen-panel-500-500](https://www.soundlight.com.au/event-pixels-riy-series-p2.91-mm-indoor-led-screen-panel-500-500)